docs/docs/intro.md, before:

---
sidebar_position: 1
slug: /
title: Introduction
---

# :wave: Welcome to Hanko Docs

Hanko is a lightweight, open source user authentication solution that takes you on the journey beyond passwords. For better security, increased conversion rates, and happier users.

## Get started with Hanko

Start a project with [Hanko Cloud](https://cloud.hanko.io):

<iframe width="100%" height="450" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/dSeYqEhqZc0?si=anD8PLuU7khVRfDw" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture; web-share" allowfullscreen></iframe>

Or learn how to [host Hanko](https://github.com/teamhanko/hanko) yourself.

## Integrate Hanko

To integrate Hanko into your project, we are providing [guides](/guides/frontend) for popular frontend frameworks.

## Give feedback

We'd love to hear your thoughts about Hanko, especially if you encounter any problems. Please do not hesitate to reach out. You can find us on

- [Hanko Community Slack](https://www.hanko.io/community)
- [Twitter](https://twitter.com/hanko_io)

## Contribute

Contributions to the Hanko project are appreciated. For more complex topics, we encourage you to talk to us first to avoid misunderstandings. We're actively working on Hanko and may have already started implementing certain features.

Commit message:

feat(saml): implement enterprise saml feature
* add feature to /ee/saml/
* Implement SAML logic with gosaml2
* provide endpoint for metadata and cert download
* provide endpoint for authentication and callback
* provide endpoint to fetch provider
* map SAML attributes to thirdparty claims
* map unknown claim - attribute mappings to custom claims
* add default claims for generic client and auth0
* implement saml certificate generation
* implement saml state generation and persistence
(POST request does not get a cookie back and post body was to big for GET Redirect)
* expose if an enterprise connection can be used in config dto
* add frontend implementation
* add docs (First Draft)

docs/docs/intro.md, after:

---
sidebar_position: 1
slug: /
title: Introduction
---

# :wave: Welcome to Hanko Docs

Hanko is a lightweight, open source user authentication solution that takes you on the journey beyond passwords. For better security, increased conversion rates, and happier users.

## Get started with Hanko

Start a project with [Hanko Cloud](https://cloud.hanko.io):

<iframe width="100%" height="450" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/dSeYqEhqZc0?si=anD8PLuU7khVRfDw" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture; web-share" allowfullscreen></iframe>

Or learn how to [host Hanko](https://github.com/teamhanko/hanko) yourself.

## Integrate Hanko

To integrate Hanko into your project, we are providing [guides](/guides/frontend) for popular frontend frameworks.

## Use enterprise features

To use enterprise features like SAML SSO you need to use [Hanko Cloud](https://cloud.hanko.io) or have a [business subscription](https://www.hanko.io/pricing).
You can follow our [enterprise guides](/guides/ee) to integrate our enterprise features into your project.

## Give feedback

We'd love to hear your thoughts about Hanko, especially if you encounter any problems. Please do not hesitate to reach out. You can find us on

- [Hanko Community Slack](https://www.hanko.io/community)
- [Twitter](https://twitter.com/hanko_io)

## Contribute

Contributions to the Hanko project are appreciated. For more complex topics, we encourage you to talk to us first to avoid misunderstandings. We're actively working on Hanko and may have already started implementing certain features.
