docs/docs/guides/social/github.mdx, before:

---
title: Login with GitHub
sidebar_label: GitHub
keywords:
  - social login
  - github
sidebar_custom_props:
  docCardIconName: github-dark
---

import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

# Login with GitHub

To enable GitHub login for your project, you need to
- Create a GitHub OAuth application.
- Create your GitHub OAuth credentials and configure them with Hanko.
- Add the Hanko `<hanko-auth>` web component or add the required code to your frontend using the `hanko-frontend-sdk`.

## Access your GitHub account

- Go to [github.com](https://github.com).
- Click on `Sign In` at the top right to log in. If you do not have an account yet, create one.

## Create a GitHub OAuth App {#create-app}

- Once signed in, click on your profile photo at the top right.
- Click `Settings` near the bottom of the menu.
- In the left sidebar, click `Developer settings` (near the bottom).
- In the left sidebar, click `OAuth Apps`.
- Click `New OAuth app` on the top right. This will open a registration form. Before filling out the form you need one
more piece of information (see the [next step](#redirect-url)).

## Get your provider redirect URL {#redirect-url}

When creating an OAuth app with GitHub, you need to provide a redirect URL that determines where the third party
provider redirects after a successful login. This redirect URL consists of the base URL of the Hanko API
and the [`/thirdparty/callback`](http://docs.hanko.io/api/public#tag/Third-Party/operation/thirdPartyCallback) endpoint.
Your Hanko API base URL, and therefore your redirect URL, depends on whether you use Hanko Cloud or chose to self-host
the Hanko API:

```mdx-code-block
<Tabs groupId="environment">
<TabItem value="cloud" label="Hanko Cloud">
```

When using Hanko Cloud you can obtain your redirect URL from the Hanko Cloud Console:

- Sign in to [cloud.hanko.io](https://cloud.hanko.io).
- Select your `Organization`.
- Select your `Project`.
- In the left sidebar, click `Settings`, then select `Identity providers`.
- Find your redirect URL in the `Redirect URL` input.

You need the redirect URL for [completing the GitHub OAuth app registration](#complete-app) in the next step.

```mdx-code-block
</TabItem>
<TabItem value="self-hosted" label="Self-hosted">
```

When self-hosting your redirect URL depends on where you chose to host your Hanko API instance, i.e.
it looks like: `<your_hanko_api_url>/thirdparty/callback`.

You need the redirect URL for [completing the GitHub OAuth app registration](#complete-app) in the next step and when
[configuring your GitHub credentials with Hanko](#config-hanko).

```mdx-code-block
</TabItem>
</Tabs>
```

## Complete OAuth app registration {#complete-app}

- Now, fill in the required information in the OAuth app registration form:
  - In `Application name`, enter the name of your app.
  - In `Homepage URL`, enter the full URL to your app.
  - In `Authorization callback URL`, enter the redirect URL from the [previous step](#redirect-url).
- Click `Register application`. You should now see an overview of your OAuth app.
- Copy and save the `Client ID`. You need this in the [next step](#config-hanko).
- Click `Generate a new client secret`.
- Copy and save the `Client secret`. You need this in the [next step](#config-hanko).

## Configure GitHub credentials with Hanko {#config-hanko}

Next, you need to configure your GitHub credentials with Hanko. Configuration differs depending on whether you
use Hanko Cloud or self-host the Hanko API:

```mdx-code-block
<Tabs groupId="environment">
<TabItem value="cloud" label="Hanko Cloud">
```

When using Hanko Cloud, configure third party settings using the Hanko Cloud Console:

- Sign in to [cloud.hanko.io](https://cloud.hanko.io).
- Select your `Organization`.
- Select your `Project`.
- In the left sidebar, click `Settings`, then select `Identity providers`.
- Under `Identity provider settings` configure the following:
  - `Error redirect URL`: This is a URL in your frontend the Hanko API redirects to if an error occurs during third
    party sign-in. When [using the `hanko-elements` web components](#frontend-integration) it should be the URL of the
    page that embeds the web component such that errors can be processed properly by the web component.
  - `Allowed redirect URL`: This is a URL in your frontend the Hanko API is allowed to redirect to after third party
    authentication was successful. When [using the `hanko-elements` web components](#frontend-integration), it should be
    the URL of the page that embeds the web component.
    - _**Note**_: supports wildcard matching through globbing:
      - `https://*.example.com` will allow `https://foo.example.com` and `https://bar.example.com` to be accepted.
      - `https://foo.example.com/*` will match `https://foo.example.com/page1`
        and `https://foo.example.com/page2`.
      - `**` acts as a "super"-wildcard/match-all.
- Find and expand the `GitHub` provider panel in the `Providers` list.
- Enable the provider by clicking the toggle switch.
- Enter your `Client ID` and `Client secret`.
- Click `Save`.

```mdx-code-block
</TabItem>
<TabItem value="self-hosted" label="Self-hosted">
```

When self-hosting you need to adjust your backend
[configuration file](https://github.com/teamhanko/hanko/blob/main/backend/config/config.yaml). You must provide
the following data:
  - your provider [`redirect_url`](#redirect-url)
  - your [`client ID`](#complete-app)
  - your client [`secret`](#complete-app)
  - an`error_redirect_url`: This is a URL in your frontend the Hanko API redirects to if an error occurs during third
    party sign-in. When [using the `hanko-elements` web components](#frontend-integration), it should be the URL of the
    page that embeds the web component such that errors can be processed properly by the web component.
  - an `allowed_redirect_url`: This is a URL in your frontend the Hanko API is allowed to redirect to after third
    party sign-in was successful. When [using the `hanko-elements` web components](#frontend-integration), it should be
    the URL of the page that embeds the web component.
    - _**Note**_: supports wildcard matching through globbing:
      - `https://*.example.com` will allow `https://foo.example.com` and `https://bar.example.com` to be accepted.
      - `https://foo.example.com/*` will match `https://foo.example.com/page1`
      and `https://foo.example.com/page2`.
      - `**` acts as a "super"-wildcard/match-all.

Open up your configuration file and add the following:

```yaml title=config.yaml
third_party:
  # You do not have to add this URL to the 'allowed_redirect_urls', it is automatically included when
  # validating redirect URLs.
  #
  # NOTE: URLs MUST NOT have trailing slash
  error_redirect_url: <your_error_redirect_url>
  # NOTE: URLs in the list MUST NOT have trailing slash
  allowed_redirect_urls:
      - <your_allowed_redirect_url>
  redirect_url: <your_provider_redirect_url>
  providers:
    github:
      enabled: true
      client_id: <your_github_client_id>
      secret: <your_github_client_secret>
```

```mdx-code-block
</TabItem>
</Tabs>
```

## Enable login in your frontend app {#frontend-integration}

Frontend integration depends on whether you intend to use a pre-built UI as provided by the
[`@teamhanko/hanko-elements`](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@teamhanko/hanko-elements) package or prefer building
a custom UI using the [`@teamhanko/hanko-frontend-sdk`](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@teamhanko/hanko-frontend-sdk).

```mdx-code-block
<Tabs>
<TabItem value="elements" label="Hanko Elements">
```

Depending on what framework your frontend uses, integrate the `<hanko-auth>` web component from the `hanko-elements`
package according to one of our [frontend guides](/guides/frontend). If everything was successful, the component should
now render a button to log in with `GitHub` on the login view.

:::info

Make sure to [configure](#config-hanko) the page the web component is embedded on as your error redirect URL
as well as an allowed redirect URL.

:::

On successful authentication with the third party provider, the backend issues a session cookie and the web component
continues the usual component flow on success. Errors that occur during third party
provider authentication are also picked up and displayed in the web component accordingly.

```mdx-code-block
</TabItem>
<TabItem value="sdk" label="Hanko Frontend SDK">
```

When building your own UI, you can use the `@teamhanko/hanko-frontend-sdk` to initialize third party sign in.
Create a [`Hanko` client](https://docs.hanko.io/jsdoc/hanko-frontend-sdk/Hanko.html) instance and call `thirdParty.auth`
with `github` as your provider and the target URL in your frontend you want to redirect to
after successful third party authentication (must be [configured](#config-hanko) as an allowed redirect URL).
Doing so first redirects you to the third party provider, where you then will be prompted
to authenticate and provide consent for the API to access your data.

```js showLineNumbers
import { Hanko } from "@teamhanko/hanko-frontend-sdk"

const hanko = new Hanko("<your_hanko_api_url>")

async function signInWithGitHub() {
    try {
       await hanko.thirdParty.auth("github", "<your_redirect_url>");
    } catch (error) {
      // handle error
    }
}
```

On successful authentication with the third party provider, the API redirects you to the given redirect URL. The
URL query includes a one time token that must be exchanged for a JWT. Use the `token.validate`
method on your client to validate the token:

```js showLineNumbers
import { Hanko } from "@teamhanko/hanko-frontend-sdk"

const hanko = new Hanko("<your_hanko_api_url>")

async function onLoad() {
    try {
       await hanko.token.validate();
    } catch (error) {
      // handle error
    }

    // you should now have a JWT cookie set
}
```

On success, the API issues a JWT which is then set by the SDK as a cookie (`hanko`). All other SDK methods can now
use the cookie to make authenticated requests to the API.

```mdx-code-block
</TabItem>
</Tabs>
```

:::info

If you are self-hosting and your frontend application runs on a different domain than the Hanko API, make sure to
- enable session token propagation via header manually by setting `session.enable_auth_token_header` to `true` in your
  configuration, so that session cookies can be set client-side.
- include your frontend domain in the `server.public.cors.allowed_origins` in your
  [configuration](https://github.com/teamhanko/hanko/blob/main/backend/docs/Config.md).

:::

Commit message:

docs(thirdparty): explain personal vs organzational github oauth apps

docs/docs/guides/social/github.mdx, after:

---
title: Login with GitHub
sidebar_label: GitHub
keywords:
  - social login
  - github
sidebar_custom_props:
  docCardIconName: github-dark
---

import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

# Login with GitHub

To enable GitHub login for your project, you need to
- Create a GitHub OAuth application.
- Create your GitHub OAuth credentials and configure them with Hanko.
- Add the Hanko `<hanko-auth>` web component or add the required code to your frontend using the `hanko-frontend-sdk`.

## Access your GitHub account

- Go to [github.com](https://github.com).
- Click on `Sign In` at the top right to log in. If you do not have an account yet, create one.

## Create a GitHub OAuth App {#create-app}

- Once signed in, click on your profile photo at the top right.
- If you want to create an OAuth app for your personal account, click `Settings` near the bottom of the menu. If you
want to create an OAuth app for your organization, first click `Your organizations`, then click the `Settings` button
for your organization.
- In the left sidebar, click `Developer settings` (near the bottom).
- In the left sidebar, click `OAuth Apps`.
- Click `New OAuth app` on the top right. This will open a registration form. Before filling out the form you need one
more piece of information (see the [next step](#redirect-url)).

## Get your provider redirect URL {#redirect-url}

When creating an OAuth app with GitHub, you need to provide a redirect URL that determines where the third party
provider redirects after a successful login. This redirect URL consists of the base URL of the Hanko API
and the [`/thirdparty/callback`](http://docs.hanko.io/api/public#tag/Third-Party/operation/thirdPartyCallback) endpoint.
Your Hanko API base URL, and therefore your redirect URL, depends on whether you use Hanko Cloud or chose to self-host
the Hanko API:

```mdx-code-block
<Tabs groupId="environment">
<TabItem value="cloud" label="Hanko Cloud">
```

When using Hanko Cloud you can obtain your redirect URL from the Hanko Cloud Console:

- Sign in to [cloud.hanko.io](https://cloud.hanko.io).
- Select your `Organization`.
- Select your `Project`.
- In the left sidebar, click `Settings`, then select `Identity providers`.
- Find your redirect URL in the `Redirect URL` input.

You need the redirect URL for [completing the GitHub OAuth app registration](#complete-app) in the next step.

```mdx-code-block
</TabItem>
<TabItem value="self-hosted" label="Self-hosted">
```

When self-hosting your redirect URL depends on where you chose to host your Hanko API instance, i.e.
it looks like: `<your_hanko_api_url>/thirdparty/callback`.

You need the redirect URL for [completing the GitHub OAuth app registration](#complete-app) in the next step and when
[configuring your GitHub credentials with Hanko](#config-hanko).

```mdx-code-block
</TabItem>
</Tabs>
```

## Complete OAuth app registration {#complete-app}

- Now, fill in the required information in the OAuth app registration form:
  - In `Application name`, enter the name of your app.
  - In `Homepage URL`, enter the full URL to your app.
  - In `Authorization callback URL`, enter the redirect URL from the [previous step](#redirect-url).
- Click `Register application`. You should now see an overview of your OAuth app.
- Copy and save the `Client ID`. You need this in the [next step](#config-hanko).
- Click `Generate a new client secret`.
- Copy and save the `Client secret`. You need this in the [next step](#config-hanko).

## Configure GitHub credentials with Hanko {#config-hanko}

Next, you need to configure your GitHub credentials with Hanko. Configuration differs depending on whether you
use Hanko Cloud or self-host the Hanko API:

```mdx-code-block
<Tabs groupId="environment">
<TabItem value="cloud" label="Hanko Cloud">
```

When using Hanko Cloud, configure third party settings using the Hanko Cloud Console:

- Sign in to [cloud.hanko.io](https://cloud.hanko.io).
- Select your `Organization`.
- Select your `Project`.
- In the left sidebar, click `Settings`, then select `Identity providers`.
- Under `Identity provider settings` configure the following:
  - `Error redirect URL`: This is a URL in your frontend the Hanko API redirects to if an error occurs during third
    party sign-in. When [using the `hanko-elements` web components](#frontend-integration) it should be the URL of the
    page that embeds the web component such that errors can be processed properly by the web component.
  - `Allowed redirect URL`: This is a URL in your frontend the Hanko API is allowed to redirect to after third party
    authentication was successful. When [using the `hanko-elements` web components](#frontend-integration), it should be
    the URL of the page that embeds the web component.
    - _**Note**_: supports wildcard matching through globbing:
      - `https://*.example.com` will allow `https://foo.example.com` and `https://bar.example.com` to be accepted.
      - `https://foo.example.com/*` will match `https://foo.example.com/page1`
        and `https://foo.example.com/page2`.
      - `**` acts as a "super"-wildcard/match-all.
- Find and expand the `GitHub` provider panel in the `Providers` list.
- Enable the provider by clicking the toggle switch.
- Enter your `Client ID` and `Client secret`.
- Click `Save`.

```mdx-code-block
</TabItem>
<TabItem value="self-hosted" label="Self-hosted">
```

When self-hosting you need to adjust your backend
[configuration file](https://github.com/teamhanko/hanko/blob/main/backend/config/config.yaml). You must provide
the following data:
  - your provider [`redirect_url`](#redirect-url)
  - your [`client ID`](#complete-app)
  - your client [`secret`](#complete-app)
  - an`error_redirect_url`: This is a URL in your frontend the Hanko API redirects to if an error occurs during third
    party sign-in. When [using the `hanko-elements` web components](#frontend-integration), it should be the URL of the
    page that embeds the web component such that errors can be processed properly by the web component.
  - an `allowed_redirect_url`: This is a URL in your frontend the Hanko API is allowed to redirect to after third
    party sign-in was successful. When [using the `hanko-elements` web components](#frontend-integration), it should be
    the URL of the page that embeds the web component.
    - _**Note**_: supports wildcard matching through globbing:
      - `https://*.example.com` will allow `https://foo.example.com` and `https://bar.example.com` to be accepted.
      - `https://foo.example.com/*` will match `https://foo.example.com/page1`
      and `https://foo.example.com/page2`.
      - `**` acts as a "super"-wildcard/match-all.

Open up your configuration file and add the following:

```yaml title=config.yaml
third_party:
  # You do not have to add this URL to the 'allowed_redirect_urls', it is automatically included when
  # validating redirect URLs.
  #
  # NOTE: URLs MUST NOT have trailing slash
  error_redirect_url: <your_error_redirect_url>
  # NOTE: URLs in the list MUST NOT have trailing slash
  allowed_redirect_urls:
      - <your_allowed_redirect_url>
  redirect_url: <your_provider_redirect_url>
  providers:
    github:
      enabled: true
      client_id: <your_github_client_id>
      secret: <your_github_client_secret>
```

```mdx-code-block
</TabItem>
</Tabs>
```

## Enable login in your frontend app {#frontend-integration}

Frontend integration depends on whether you intend to use a pre-built UI as provided by the
[`@teamhanko/hanko-elements`](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@teamhanko/hanko-elements) package or prefer building
a custom UI using the [`@teamhanko/hanko-frontend-sdk`](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@teamhanko/hanko-frontend-sdk).

```mdx-code-block
<Tabs>
<TabItem value="elements" label="Hanko Elements">
```

Depending on what framework your frontend uses, integrate the `<hanko-auth>` web component from the `hanko-elements`
package according to one of our [frontend guides](/guides/frontend). If everything was successful, the component should
now render a button to log in with `GitHub` on the login view.

:::info

Make sure to [configure](#config-hanko) the page the web component is embedded on as your error redirect URL
as well as an allowed redirect URL.

:::

On successful authentication with the third party provider, the backend issues a session cookie and the web component
continues the usual component flow on success. Errors that occur during third party
provider authentication are also picked up and displayed in the web component accordingly.

```mdx-code-block
</TabItem>
<TabItem value="sdk" label="Hanko Frontend SDK">
```

When building your own UI, you can use the `@teamhanko/hanko-frontend-sdk` to initialize third party sign in.
Create a [`Hanko` client](https://docs.hanko.io/jsdoc/hanko-frontend-sdk/Hanko.html) instance and call `thirdParty.auth`
with `github` as your provider and the target URL in your frontend you want to redirect to
after successful third party authentication (must be [configured](#config-hanko) as an allowed redirect URL).
Doing so first redirects you to the third party provider, where you then will be prompted
to authenticate and provide consent for the API to access your data.

```js showLineNumbers
import { Hanko } from "@teamhanko/hanko-frontend-sdk"

const hanko = new Hanko("<your_hanko_api_url>")

async function signInWithGitHub() {
    try {
       await hanko.thirdParty.auth("github", "<your_redirect_url>");
    } catch (error) {
      // handle error
    }
}
```

On successful authentication with the third party provider, the API redirects you to the given redirect URL. The
URL query includes a one time token that must be exchanged for a JWT. Use the `token.validate`
method on your client to validate the token:

```js showLineNumbers
import { Hanko } from "@teamhanko/hanko-frontend-sdk"

const hanko = new Hanko("<your_hanko_api_url>")

async function onLoad() {
    try {
       await hanko.token.validate();
    } catch (error) {
      // handle error
    }

    // you should now have a JWT cookie set
}
```

On success, the API issues a JWT which is then set by the SDK as a cookie (`hanko`). All other SDK methods can now
use the cookie to make authenticated requests to the API.

```mdx-code-block
</TabItem>
</Tabs>
```

:::info

If you are self-hosting and your frontend application runs on a different domain than the Hanko API, make sure to
- enable session token propagation via header manually by setting `session.enable_auth_token_header` to `true` in your
  configuration, so that session cookies can be set client-side.
- include your frontend domain in the `server.public.cors.allowed_origins` in your
  [configuration](https://github.com/teamhanko/hanko/blob/main/backend/docs/Config.md).

:::
