docs/docs/guides/ee/saml.mdx, before:

---
title: SAML SSO (Enterprise Feature)
sidebar_label: SAML SSO
description: 'Learn how to configure SAML SSO for Hanko'
---

import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

# Using SAML SSO

SAML SSO provides you with a way to connect your application to enterprise SSO identity providers like Auth0 or MS AD.
In this guide you will learn how to configure and use the enterprise SAML SSO feature.

## Wording

| Acronym | Name              | Description                                                    |
|:--------|:------------------|:---------------------------------------------------------------|
| **SP**  | Service Provider  | Webapp or Backend-Service which needs to authenticate the user |
| **IdP** | Identity Provider | Holds identity data for a user. Used to authenticate the user  |

## Configure SAML

To configure SAML all you need is to append the following configuration to the root element of your hanko config.yaml file
and replace all `<VARIABLE>`-Parts with your parameters (There will be an explanation of all tags after the config):

``` yaml showLineNumbers
saml:
  enabled: true
  endpoint_url: <ENDPOINT_URL>
  audience_uri: "urn:hanko:application"
  default_redirect_url: <YOUR_APPLICATION_DEFAULT_URL>
  allowed_redirect_urls:
    - "<A_REDIRECT_URL>"
  options:
    sign_authn_requests: true
    force_login: false
    validate_encryption_cert: true
    skip_signature_validation: false
    allow_missing_attributes: true
  identity_providers:
    - enabled: true
      name: "<CHOOSE_A_NAME>"
      domain: "<YOUR_EMAIL_DOMAIN>"
      metadata_url: "<URL_TO_THE_METADATA_OF_YOUR_IDP>"
      skip_email_verification: true
      attribute_map:
        name: "<NAME_ATTRIBUTE_IN_IDP_ASSERTION>"
        family_name: "<FAMILY_NAME_ATTRIBUTE_IN_IDP_ASSERTION>"
        given_name: "<GIVEN_NAME_ATTRIBUTE_IN_IDP_ASSERTION>"
        middle_name: "<MIDDLE_NAME_ATTRIBUTE_IN_IDP_ASSERTION>"
        nickname: "<NICKNAME_ATTRIBUTE_IN_IDP_ASSERTION>"
        preferred_username: "<PREFERRED_USERNAME_ATTRIBUTE_IN_IDP_ASSERTION>"
        profile: "<PROFILE_ATTRIBUTE_IN_IDP_ASSERTION>"
        picture: "<PICTURE_ATTRIBUTE_IN_IDP_ASSERTION>"
        website: "<WEBSITE_ATTRIBUTE_IN_IDP_ASSERTION>"
        gender: "<GENDER_ATTRIBUTE_IN_IDP_ASSERTION>"
        birthdate: "<BIRTHDAY_ATTRIBUTE_IN_IDP_ASSERTION>"
        zone_info: "<ZONE_INFO_ATTRIBUTE_IN_IDP_ASSERTION>"
        locale: "<LOCALE_ATTRIBUTE_IN_IDP_ASSERTION>"
        update_at: "<UPDATED_AT_ATTRIBUTE_IN_IDP_ASSERTION>"
        email: "<EMAIL_ATTRIBUTE_IN_IDP_ASSERTION>"
        email_verified: "<EMAIL_VERIFIED_ATTRIBUTE_IN_IDP_ASSERTION>"
        phone: "<PHONE_ATTRIBUTE_IN_IDP_ASSERTION>"
        phone_verified: "<PHONE_VERIFIED_ATTRIBUTE_IN_IDP_ASSERTION>"
```

Explanation of all tags:

| Level             | Tag                       | Type                | Explanation                                                                                                                                                     |
|-------------------|---------------------------|---------------------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| saml              | enabled                   | boolean             | Enables or disabled the saml api endpoints. Default: false                                                                                                      |
| saml              | endpoint_url              | string              | URL at which the SAML endpoints like metadata, callback, etc. are available (e.g. `http://example.com/api`). Will be provided as metadata for IDP               |
| saml              | audience_uri              | string              | Audience identifier. Should be unique to your app. Will be provided as metadata for IDP                                                                         |
| saml              | default_redirect_url      | string              | URL to which to redirect in case of errors or when no allowed_redirect_url is provided                                                                          |
| saml              | allowed_redirect_urls     | []string            | Array of URLs to which hanko is allowed to redirect.                                                                                                            |
| saml              | options                   |                     | Optional feature toggles for service provider operations                                                                                                        |
| saml              | identity_providers        | []identity_provider | Array of Identity Providers                                                                                                                                     |
| options           | sign_authn_requests       | boolean             | Toggle for signing initial authn requests. Default: true                                                                                                        |
| options           | force_login               | boolean             | Forces the IDP to always show a login window for the user. Default: false                                                                                       |
| options           | validate_encryption_cert  | bool                | Check if the certificate used for the encryption of the IDP responses is valid. Default: true                                                                   |
| options           | skip_signature_validation | bool                | Skip checking if the signature of a IDP response is valid. Default: false                                                                                       |
| options           | allow_missing_attributes  | bool                | allows missing attributes (e.g. the IDP specifies an phone attribute in metadata but does not send it with a SAML Assertion Response). Default: false           |
| identity_provider | enabled                   | bool                | Activates or deactivates an identity provider. Default: false                                                                                                   |
| identity_provider | name                      | string              | Easy identifiable name of a provider                                                                                                                            |
| identity_provider | domain                    | string              | At login the domain will be extracted from the users email address and then used to identify the idp to use. This tag defines for which domain the idp is used. |
| identity_provider | metadata_url              | string              | public URL where the API can fetch the IDP metadata.                                                                                                            |
| identity_provider | skip_email_verification   | boolean             | Toggles if the email_verified attribute will be checked. Default: false                                                                                         |
| identity_provider | attribute_map             |                     | Map of Attributes                                                                                                                                               |
| attribute_map     | name                      | string              | Maps a SAML Assertion Attribute to the name field in HANKO. Default Value: `http://schemas.xmlsoap.org/ws/2005/05/identity/claims/name`                         |
| attribute_map     | family_name               | string              | Maps a SAML Assertion Attribute to the family name field in HANKO. Default Value: `http://schemas.xmlsoap.org/ws/2005/05/identity/claims/surname`               |
| attribute_map     | given_name                | string              | Maps a SAML Assertion Attribute to the given name field in HANKO. Default Value: `http://schemas.xmlsoap.org/ws/2005/05/identity/claims/givenname`              |
| attribute_map     | middle_name               | string              | Maps a SAML Assertion Attribute to the middle name field in HANKO.                                                                                              |
| attribute_map     | nickname                  | string              | Maps a SAML Assertion Attribute to the nickname field in HANKO.                                                                                                 |
| attribute_map     | preferred_username        | string              | Maps a SAML Assertion Attribute to the preferred_username field in HANKO.                                                                                       |
| attribute_map     | profile                   | string              | Maps a SAML Assertion Attribute to the profile field in HANKO.                                                                                                  |
| attribute_map     | picture                   | string              | Maps a SAML Assertion Attribute to the picture field in HANKO.                                                                                                  |
| attribute_map     | website                   | string              | Maps a SAML Assertion Attribute to the website field in HANKO.                                                                                                  |
| attribute_map     | gender                    | string              | Maps a SAML Assertion Attribute to the gender field in HANKO.                                                                                                   |
| attribute_map     | birthdate                 | string              | Maps a SAML Assertion Attribute to the birthdate field in HANKO.                                                                                                |
| attribute_map     | zone_info                 | string              | Maps a SAML Assertion Attribute to the zone_info field in HANKO.                                                                                                |
| attribute_map     | locale                    | string              | Maps a SAML Assertion Attribute to the locale field in HANKO.                                                                                                   |
| attribute_map     | updated_at                | string              | Maps a SAML Assertion Attribute to the updated_at field in HANKO.                                                                                               |
| attribute_map     | email                     | string              | Maps a SAML Assertion Attribute to the email field in HANKO. Default: `http://schemas.xmlsoap.org/ws/2005/05/identity/claims/emailaddress`                      |
| attribute_map     | email_verified            | string              | Maps a SAML Assertion Attribute to the email_verified field in HANKO.                                                                                           |
| attribute_map     | phone                     | string              | Maps a SAML Assertion Attribute to the phone field in HANKO.                                                                                                    |
| attribute_map     | phone_verified            | string              | Maps a SAML Assertion Attribute to the phone_verified field in HANKO.                                                                                           |

Every IDP-Attribute which is not a hanko field will be mapped into a custom claim map of type `map[string]string` where the key of an entry is the attribute name and the value of an entry is the attribute value.

### Additional Attributes
For some providers we also provide some additional attributes. The provider will be extracted from the metadata url (e.g. `https://<tenant>.eu.auth0.com/samlp/metadata/<random_app_string>` will load defaults for auth0).
Currently, there the following extra defaults are provided for the following providers:

#### Auth0
| Field          | Default        |
|----------------|----------------|
| email_verified | email_verified |
| nickname       | nickname       |
| picture        | picture        |
| updated_at     | updated_at     |

## Configure Identity Provider

To configure your entity provider you will mabye need the following parameters:

* Callback-URL: This will be `<ENDPOINT_URL>/callback` (e.g.: ENDPOINT_URL: http://localhost:8000 -> http://localhost:8000/saml/callback)
* Service Provider Metadata URL: This will be `<ENDPOINT_URL>/metadata?domain=<DOMAIN>` (e.g.: ENDPOINT_URL: http://localhost:8000 , DOMAIN: test.example -> http://localhost:8000/saml/metadata?domain=test.example)
* Logout URL: This will be `<ENDPOINT_URL>/logout` (e.g.: ENDPOINT_URL: http://localhost:8000 -> http://localhost:8000/saml/logout) - Currently not supported
* Auth URL: This will be `<ENDPOINT_URL>/auth?domain=<DOMAIN>` (e.g.: ENDPOINT_URL: http://localhost:8000 , DOMAIN: test.example -> http://localhost:8000/saml/auth?domain=test.example)

If your IDP requires you to upload the certificate file of your service provider you can download it on the following url:
`<ENDPOINT_URL>/saml/metadata?domain=<DOMAIN>&cert_only=true`

## Use SAML Login

With an active saml integration [hanko-elements](https://github.com/teamhanko/hanko/blob/main/frontend/elements/README.md) will automatically try to use your identity provider. Hanko will extract
the domain from the email address of a user and if it matches the domain tag of an IDP the user will be redirected to
the login form of the IDP.

Commit message:

fix(saml): fix review issues
* fix typos in config
* fix defaults for auth0 -> add schema
* change error message in saml certificate db entity creation
* change redirectError to use StatusSeeOther (303) to switch from POST to GET request

docs/docs/guides/ee/saml.mdx, after:

---
title: SAML SSO (Enterprise Feature)
sidebar_label: SAML SSO
description: 'Learn how to configure SAML SSO for Hanko'
---

import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

# Using SAML SSO

SAML SSO provides you with a way to connect your application to enterprise SSO identity providers like Auth0 or MS AD.
In this guide you will learn how to configure and use the enterprise SAML SSO feature.

## Wording

| Acronym | Name              | Description                                                    |
|:--------|:------------------|:---------------------------------------------------------------|
| **SP**  | Service Provider  | Webapp or Backend-Service which needs to authenticate the user |
| **IdP** | Identity Provider | Holds identity data for a user. Used to authenticate the user  |

## Configure SAML

To configure SAML all you need is to append the following configuration to the root element of your hanko config.yaml file
and replace all `<VARIABLE>`-Parts with your parameters (There will be an explanation of all tags after the config):

``` yaml showLineNumbers
saml:
  enabled: true
  endpoint_url: <ENDPOINT_URL>
  audience_uri: "urn:hanko:application"
  default_redirect_url: <YOUR_APPLICATION_DEFAULT_URL>
  allowed_redirect_urls:
    - "<A_REDIRECT_URL>"
  options:
    sign_authn_requests: true
    force_login: false
    validate_encryption_cert: true
    skip_signature_validation: false
    allow_missing_attributes: true
  identity_providers:
    - enabled: true
      name: "<CHOOSE_A_NAME>"
      domain: "<YOUR_EMAIL_DOMAIN>"
      metadata_url: "<URL_TO_THE_METADATA_OF_YOUR_IDP>"
      skip_email_verification: true
      attribute_map:
        name: "<NAME_ATTRIBUTE_IN_IDP_ASSERTION>"
        family_name: "<FAMILY_NAME_ATTRIBUTE_IN_IDP_ASSERTION>"
        given_name: "<GIVEN_NAME_ATTRIBUTE_IN_IDP_ASSERTION>"
        middle_name: "<MIDDLE_NAME_ATTRIBUTE_IN_IDP_ASSERTION>"
        nickname: "<NICKNAME_ATTRIBUTE_IN_IDP_ASSERTION>"
        preferred_username: "<PREFERRED_USERNAME_ATTRIBUTE_IN_IDP_ASSERTION>"
        profile: "<PROFILE_ATTRIBUTE_IN_IDP_ASSERTION>"
        picture: "<PICTURE_ATTRIBUTE_IN_IDP_ASSERTION>"
        website: "<WEBSITE_ATTRIBUTE_IN_IDP_ASSERTION>"
        gender: "<GENDER_ATTRIBUTE_IN_IDP_ASSERTION>"
        birthdate: "<BIRTHDAY_ATTRIBUTE_IN_IDP_ASSERTION>"
        zone_info: "<ZONE_INFO_ATTRIBUTE_IN_IDP_ASSERTION>"
        locale: "<LOCALE_ATTRIBUTE_IN_IDP_ASSERTION>"
        update_at: "<UPDATED_AT_ATTRIBUTE_IN_IDP_ASSERTION>"
        email: "<EMAIL_ATTRIBUTE_IN_IDP_ASSERTION>"
        email_verified: "<EMAIL_VERIFIED_ATTRIBUTE_IN_IDP_ASSERTION>"
        phone: "<PHONE_ATTRIBUTE_IN_IDP_ASSERTION>"
        phone_verified: "<PHONE_VERIFIED_ATTRIBUTE_IN_IDP_ASSERTION>"
```

Explanation of all tags:

| Level             | Tag                       | Type                | Explanation                                                                                                                                                     |
|-------------------|---------------------------|---------------------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| saml              | enabled                   | boolean             | Enables or disabled the saml api endpoints. Default: false                                                                                                      |
| saml              | endpoint_url              | string              | URL at which the SAML endpoints like metadata, callback, etc. are available (e.g. `http://example.com/api`). Will be provided as metadata for IDP               |
| saml              | audience_uri              | string              | Audience identifier. Should be unique to your app. Will be provided as metadata for IDP                                                                         |
| saml              | default_redirect_url      | string              | URL to which to redirect in case of errors or when no allowed_redirect_url is provided                                                                          |
| saml              | allowed_redirect_urls     | []string            | Array of URLs to which hanko is allowed to redirect.                                                                                                            |
| saml              | options                   |                     | Optional feature toggles for service provider operations                                                                                                        |
| saml              | identity_providers        | []identity_provider | Array of Identity Providers                                                                                                                                     |
| options           | sign_authn_requests       | boolean             | Toggle for signing initial authn requests. Default: true                                                                                                        |
| options           | force_login               | boolean             | Forces the IDP to always show a login window for the user. Default: false                                                                                       |
| options           | validate_encryption_cert  | bool                | Check if the certificate used for the encryption of the IDP responses is valid. Default: true                                                                   |
| options           | skip_signature_validation | bool                | Skip checking if the signature of a IDP response is valid. Default: false                                                                                       |
| options           | allow_missing_attributes  | bool                | allows missing attributes (e.g. the IDP specifies an phone attribute in metadata but does not send it with a SAML Assertion Response). Default: false           |
| identity_provider | enabled                   | bool                | Activates or deactivates an identity provider. Default: false                                                                                                   |
| identity_provider | name                      | string              | Easy identifiable name of a provider                                                                                                                            |
| identity_provider | domain                    | string              | At login the domain will be extracted from the users email address and then used to identify the idp to use. This tag defines for which domain the idp is used. |
| identity_provider | metadata_url              | string              | public URL where the API can fetch the IDP metadata.                                                                                                            |
| identity_provider | skip_email_verification   | boolean             | Toggles if the email_verified attribute will be checked. Default: false                                                                                         |
| identity_provider | attribute_map             |                     | Map of Attributes                                                                                                                                               |
| attribute_map     | name                      | string              | Maps a SAML Assertion Attribute to the name field in HANKO. Default Value: `http://schemas.xmlsoap.org/ws/2005/05/identity/claims/name`                         |
| attribute_map     | family_name               | string              | Maps a SAML Assertion Attribute to the family name field in HANKO. Default Value: `http://schemas.xmlsoap.org/ws/2005/05/identity/claims/surname`               |
| attribute_map     | given_name                | string              | Maps a SAML Assertion Attribute to the given name field in HANKO. Default Value: `http://schemas.xmlsoap.org/ws/2005/05/identity/claims/givenname`              |
| attribute_map     | middle_name               | string              | Maps a SAML Assertion Attribute to the middle name field in HANKO.                                                                                              |
| attribute_map     | nickname                  | string              | Maps a SAML Assertion Attribute to the nickname field in HANKO.                                                                                                 |
| attribute_map     | preferred_username        | string              | Maps a SAML Assertion Attribute to the preferred_username field in HANKO.                                                                                       |
| attribute_map     | profile                   | string              | Maps a SAML Assertion Attribute to the profile field in HANKO.                                                                                                  |
| attribute_map     | picture                   | string              | Maps a SAML Assertion Attribute to the picture field in HANKO.                                                                                                  |
| attribute_map     | website                   | string              | Maps a SAML Assertion Attribute to the website field in HANKO.                                                                                                  |
| attribute_map     | gender                    | string              | Maps a SAML Assertion Attribute to the gender field in HANKO.                                                                                                   |
| attribute_map     | birthdate                 | string              | Maps a SAML Assertion Attribute to the birthdate field in HANKO.                                                                                                |
| attribute_map     | zone_info                 | string              | Maps a SAML Assertion Attribute to the zone_info field in HANKO.                                                                                                |
| attribute_map     | locale                    | string              | Maps a SAML Assertion Attribute to the locale field in HANKO.                                                                                                   |
| attribute_map     | updated_at                | string              | Maps a SAML Assertion Attribute to the updated_at field in HANKO.                                                                                               |
| attribute_map     | email                     | string              | Maps a SAML Assertion Attribute to the email field in HANKO. Default: `http://schemas.xmlsoap.org/ws/2005/05/identity/claims/emailaddress`                      |
| attribute_map     | email_verified            | string              | Maps a SAML Assertion Attribute to the email_verified field in HANKO.                                                                                           |
| attribute_map     | phone                     | string              | Maps a SAML Assertion Attribute to the phone field in HANKO.                                                                                                    |
| attribute_map     | phone_verified            | string              | Maps a SAML Assertion Attribute to the phone_verified field in HANKO.                                                                                           |

Every IDP-Attribute which is not a hanko field will be mapped into a custom claim map of type `map[string]string` where the key of an entry is the attribute name and the value of an entry is the attribute value.

### Additional Attributes
For some providers we also provide some additional attributes. The provider will be extracted from the metadata url (e.g. `https://<tenant>.eu.auth0.com/samlp/metadata/<random_app_string>` will load defaults for auth0).
Currently, there the following extra defaults are provided for the following providers:

#### Auth0
| Field          | Default                                 |
|----------------|-----------------------------------------|
| email_verified | http://schemas.auth0.com/email_verified |
| nickname       | http://schemas.auth0.com/nickname       |
| picture        | http://schemas.auth0.com/picture        |
| updated_at     | http://schemas.auth0.com/updated_at     |

*Please be aware not to set `mapUnknownClaimsAsIs` to true in your auth0 IdP config.* If you set this attribute to true auth0
will scratch the `http://schemas.auth0.com/auth0/` part, and you have to provide an `attribute_map`-Field.

## Configure Identity Provider

To configure your entity provider you will mabye need the following parameters:

* Callback-URL: This will be `<ENDPOINT_URL>/callback` (e.g.: ENDPOINT_URL: http://localhost:8000 -> http://localhost:8000/saml/callback)
* Service Provider Metadata URL: This will be `<ENDPOINT_URL>/metadata?domain=<DOMAIN>` (e.g.: ENDPOINT_URL: http://localhost:8000 , DOMAIN: test.example -> http://localhost:8000/saml/metadata?domain=test.example)
* Logout URL: This will be `<ENDPOINT_URL>/logout` (e.g.: ENDPOINT_URL: http://localhost:8000 -> http://localhost:8000/saml/logout) - Currently not supported
* Auth URL: This will be `<ENDPOINT_URL>/auth?domain=<DOMAIN>` (e.g.: ENDPOINT_URL: http://localhost:8000 , DOMAIN: test.example -> http://localhost:8000/saml/auth?domain=test.example)

If your IDP requires you to upload the certificate file of your service provider you can download it on the following url:
`<ENDPOINT_URL>/saml/metadata?domain=<DOMAIN>&cert_only=true`

## Use SAML Login

With an active saml integration [hanko-elements](https://github.com/teamhanko/hanko/blob/main/frontend/elements/README.md) will automatically try to use your identity provider. Hanko will extract
the domain from the email address of a user and if it matches the domain tag of an IDP the user will be redirected to
the login form of the IDP.
