docs/docs/guides/nuxt.mdx, before:

---
title: Nuxt.js + Hanko
sidebar_label: Nuxt.js
keywords: [nuxt, nuxtjs]
sidebar_custom_props:
  docCardIconName: nuxt
---

# Nuxt 3

In this guide you will learn how to install and use the nuxt-hanko module by [Daniel Roe](https://github.com/danielroe/nuxt-hanko).
The NuxtJS module provides a simple way to add Hanko elements and authentication to your NuxtJS application.

:::info
This guide and the nuxt-hanko module are only compatible with Nuxt 3. Find out more about Nuxt 3 at [Nuxt.com](https://nuxt.com)
:::

## Install dependencies

Install the `nuxt-hanko` package:

```shell npm2yarn
npm install -D nuxt-hanko
```

## Configure NuxtJS module

Add the `nuxt-hanko` module to the `modules` section of your `nuxt.config.ts` file.

```jsx title="nuxt.config.ts" showLineNumbers
export default defineNuxtConfig({
  modules: ['nuxt-hanko'],
  hanko: {
    // You can also configure this by setting NUXT_PUBLIC_HANKO_API_URL environment variable at runtime
    apiURL: '<YOUR_API_URL>'
  }
});
```

The module comes pre-configured with the options for most common use cases, you can override them by adding a `hanko` section to your `nuxt.config.ts` file. For all overrides please check the [module repo](https://github.com/danielroe/nuxt-hanko)

:::info

If you are using [Hanko Cloud](https://cloud.hanko.io), you can find the API URL on your project dashboard.
If you are self-hosting you need to provide the URL of your running Hanko backend.

:::

## Hanko Components

You can now use the Hanko components anywhere in your app: `<hanko-auth, <hanko-events> and <hanko-profile>`. These are web components that will be rendered on the client-side only. All the props are typed.

You can turn auto-registration of components off (if you wish to use Hanko just on the server side or programmatically) by setting `hanko:{ registerComponents: false}` in your `nuxt.config.ts` file.

### `<hanko-auth>` component

To provide a login interface in your app, use the `<hanko-auth>` web component. This will render a login form and handle passkeys auth.

```jsx title="login.vue" showLineNumbers
<template>
  <hanko-auth />
</template>
```

By default no action is taken after a successful login. When you add the `hanko-logged-out` middleware to the login page it will automatically redirect the user to the page they were on before logging in, or to the optional `redirects.success` value in the module config.

```jsx title="login.vue" showLineNumbers
<script setup lang="ts">
definePageMeta({
  middleware: ['hanko-logged-out']
})
</script>
<template>
  <hanko-auth />
</template>
```

Alternatively you can redirect the user to a page of your choice by adding the `<hanko-events>` component to your page and listening for the `onAuthFlowCompleted` event.

```jsx title="login.vue" showLineNumbers
<script setup lang="ts">
function afterLogin() {
 navigateTo("/user");
}
</script>
<template>
  <hanko-auth />
  <hanko-event @onAuthFlowCompleted="afterLogin()" />
</template>
```

### Define event callbacks

To subscribe to [events](https://github.com/teamhanko/hanko/blob/main/frontend/elements/README.md#events) emited by Hanko, you can add the `<hanko-events>` component to your page and listen for the events you are interested in.

```jsx title="page.vue" showLineNumbers
<script setup lang="ts">
function updateSession() {
 // do something
}
</script>
<template>
  <hanko-event @onSessionCreated="updateSession()" />
</template>
```

### Add `<hanko-profile>` component {#hanko-profile}

To provide a page where users can manage their email addresses, password and passkeys, use the `<hanko-profile>` web
component.

```jsx title="profile.vue" showLineNumbers
<template>
  <hanko-profile />
</template>
```

### Customize component styles

The styles of the `hanko-auth` and `hanko-profile` elements can be customized using CSS variables and parts. See the guide on customization [here](https://github.com/teamhanko/hanko/tree/main/frontend/elements#ui-customization).
The styles can be scoped to the login/profile page to ensure they dont affect other parts to the app.

## useHanko() composable

The `useHanko` composable provides access to the Hanko SDK and the Hanko user object. It can be used to implement custom behaviours and functions.
The composable is auto-imported across the app and can simply be used with 'useHanko()' anywhere in your code.

## Implement logout

To log users out, simply use the `nuxt-hanko` modules built in composable `useHanko` and call the `logout` method.

```jsx title="logout.vue" showLineNumbers
<script setup lang="ts">
const hanko = useHanko()
function logout() {
  hanko!.user.logout()
}
</script>
<template>
  <button @click="logout">
      Log me out
  </button>
</template>
```

## Authenticate backend requests

A global server middleware is added by `nuxt-hanko`. This will automatically authenticate all requests to the server and add a new `hanko` property to the event context.
You can check the value of `event.context.hanko` to see if the request was authenticated and if so, what the user id is.

```jsx title="/server/api/endpoint.ts" showLineNumbers
export default defineEventHandler(async (event) => {
  const hanko = event.context.hanko;
  if (!hanko || !hanko.sub) {
    return {
      status: 401,
      body: {
        message: 'Unauthorized'
      }
    };
  }
  // Do something with the Hanko user
  return {
    hanko: event.context.hanko
  };
});
```

Commit message:

add links to hanko sdk, clarify usage
Co-authored-by: lfleischmann <67686424+lfleischmann@users.noreply.github.com>

docs/docs/guides/nuxt.mdx, after:

---
title: Nuxt.js + Hanko
sidebar_label: Nuxt.js
keywords: [nuxt, nuxtjs]
sidebar_custom_props:
  docCardIconName: nuxt
---

# Nuxt 3

In this guide you will learn how to install and use the nuxt-hanko module by [Daniel Roe](https://github.com/danielroe/nuxt-hanko).
The NuxtJS module provides a simple way to add Hanko elements and authentication to your NuxtJS application.

:::info
This guide and the nuxt-hanko module are only compatible with Nuxt 3. Find out more about Nuxt 3 at [Nuxt.com](https://nuxt.com)
:::

## Install dependencies

Install the `nuxt-hanko` package:

```shell npm2yarn
npm install -D nuxt-hanko
```

## Configure NuxtJS module

Add the `nuxt-hanko` module to the `modules` section of your `nuxt.config.ts` file.

```jsx title="nuxt.config.ts" showLineNumbers
export default defineNuxtConfig({
  modules: ['nuxt-hanko'],
  hanko: {
    // You can also configure this by setting NUXT_PUBLIC_HANKO_API_URL environment variable at runtime
    apiURL: '<YOUR_API_URL>'
  }
});
```

The module comes pre-configured with the options for most common use cases, you can override them by adding a `hanko` section to your `nuxt.config.ts` file. For all overrides please check the [module repo](https://github.com/danielroe/nuxt-hanko)

:::info

If you are using [Hanko Cloud](https://cloud.hanko.io), you can find the API URL on your project dashboard.
If you are self-hosting you need to provide the URL of your running Hanko backend.

:::

## Hanko Components

You can now use the Hanko components anywhere in your app: `<hanko-auth, <hanko-events> and <hanko-profile>`. These are web components that will be rendered on the client-side only. All the props are typed.

You can turn auto-registration of components off (if you wish to use Hanko just on the server side or programmatically) by setting `hanko:{ registerComponents: false}` in your `nuxt.config.ts` file.

### `<hanko-auth>` component

To provide a login interface in your app, use the `<hanko-auth>` web component. This will render a login form and handle passkeys auth.

```jsx title="login.vue" showLineNumbers
<template>
  <hanko-auth />
</template>
```

By default no action is taken after a successful login. When you add the `hanko-logged-out` middleware to the login page it will automatically redirect the user to the page they were on before logging in, or to the optional `redirects.success` value in the module config.

```jsx title="login.vue" showLineNumbers
<script setup lang="ts">
definePageMeta({
  middleware: ['hanko-logged-out']
})
</script>
<template>
  <hanko-auth />
</template>
```

Alternatively you can redirect the user to a page of your choice by adding the `<hanko-events>` component to your page and listening for the `onAuthFlowCompleted` event.

```jsx title="login.vue" showLineNumbers
<script setup lang="ts">
function afterLogin() {
 navigateTo("/user");
}
</script>
<template>
  <hanko-auth />
  <hanko-event @onAuthFlowCompleted="afterLogin()" />
</template>
```

### Define event callbacks

To subscribe to [events](https://github.com/teamhanko/hanko/blob/main/frontend/elements/README.md#events) emited by Hanko, you can add the `<hanko-events>` component to your page and listen for the events you are interested in.

```jsx title="page.vue" showLineNumbers
<script setup lang="ts">
function updateSession() {
 // do something
}
</script>
<template>
  <hanko-event @onSessionCreated="updateSession()" />
</template>
```

### Add `<hanko-profile>` component {#hanko-profile}

To provide a page where users can manage their email addresses, password and passkeys, use the `<hanko-profile>` web
component.

```jsx title="profile.vue" showLineNumbers
<template>
  <hanko-profile />
</template>
```

### Customize component styles

The styles of the `hanko-auth` and `hanko-profile` elements can be customized using CSS variables and parts. See the guide on customization [here](https://github.com/teamhanko/hanko/tree/main/frontend/elements#ui-customization).
The styles can be scoped to the login/profile page to ensure they dont affect other parts to the app.

## useHanko() composable

The `useHanko` composable provides access to the [Hanko SDK](https://docs.hanko.io/jsdoc/hanko-frontend-sdk/index.html) which in turn allows access to the Hanko API, e.g. for accessing the [current user info](https://docs.hanko.io/jsdoc/hanko-frontend-sdk/UserClient.html#getCurrent).
The composable is auto-imported across the app and can simply be used with `useHanko()` anywhere in your code (see the [next section](#implement-logout) for a usage example).

## Implement logout

To log users out, simply use the `nuxt-hanko` modules built in composable `useHanko` and call the `logout` method.

```jsx title="logout.vue" showLineNumbers
<script setup lang="ts">
const hanko = useHanko()
function logout() {
  hanko!.user.logout()
}
</script>
<template>
  <button @click="logout">
      Log me out
  </button>
</template>
```

## Authenticate backend requests

A global server middleware is added by `nuxt-hanko`. This will automatically authenticate all requests to the server and add a new `hanko` property to the event context.
You can check the value of `event.context.hanko` to see if the request was authenticated and if so, what the user id is.

```jsx title="/server/api/endpoint.ts" showLineNumbers
export default defineEventHandler(async (event) => {
  const hanko = event.context.hanko;
  if (!hanko || !hanko.sub) {
    return {
      status: 401,
      body: {
        message: 'Unauthorized'
      }
    };
  }
  // Do something with the Hanko user
  return {
    hanko: event.context.hanko
  };
});
```
